---
layout: post
uuid: jnick-zks-2023
title: ZK-(SNARKS) Applications in Bitcoin
author: Jonas Nick
affiliation: Blockstream
email: jonasdnick@gmail.com
---

### Prove properties of a blind signed transaction

There are often situations where for improved privacy you want a cosigner to be blind. However, a fully blind cosigner is as useful as having no cosigner at all. Therefore, we want that the cosigner can verify in zero-knowledge that the transaction fulfills certain properties, for example that the output amount does not exceed a threshold of that it goes to a specific receiver.

This may be also interesting to build a better "smart contracts unchained." Instead of showing that you have the inputs to satisfy a certain smart contract, you just prove that those inputs exist.

### UTXO-set commitments

Idea: Use a [µcash](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1104.pdf)-style accumulator instead of a Merkle tree ([utreexo](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/611.pdf)). But that application doesn't need zero-knowledge.

### HTLC<->PTLC bridge

Given hash `h` and point `P`, prove that `h = hash(x)` and `P = x*G`. This may be useful when adding PTLC to the existing network of HTLC nodes.

### Other Applications
 - Deterministic musig (similar to [MuSig-DN](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1057))
 - Proof of reserves
 - Add OP_ZKP opcode to script
 - Replace all witness data in block with succinct proof that the witness data exists.
 - In Bitcoin this doesn't save that much space (compared to ETH) since there isn't all that much witness data and it's already discounted.
 - Prove that a UTXO set was generated by a list of valid blocks (aka [ZeroSync](https://zerosync.org/zerosync.pdf))
 - This reduces resources for IBD and keeping up with the chain and may allow full node in browser or phone.
 - It's even better with utreexo because then the client doesn't need to receive the entire UTXO set
